Hey guys welcome back.
So this lecture.
Simon and I are actually just going to do a Q&A session.
We're going to cover what we talked about in section 2 Section 2 obviously was the lemonade stand or
we did that jumpstart to kind of get everybody on the same page.
Well we had some questions that we thought we wanted to explore but not obviously in the strict curriculum
of the course and we also just figured there are probably some questions we could anticipate that you
might have.
So guys consider these lectures completely extra credit watch them at your leisure.
They're not really required and that's why we're probably going to put them at the end of the course.
So if you guys really want to deep Take a deep dive then well just sit through this and we'll cover
whatever we or whatever I find interesting in whatever.
Simon thinks that we might have left out in the lectures.
Yeah absolutely.
Very cool.
So I wrote down some questions.
I see this is a question I found interesting not necessarily something that you guys might run into
one of the things I noticed when we were making the lemonade stand was that we were just guessing on
price.
And I understand a lot of what we were doing was just guesswork because you know we couldn't spend 40
lectures making a lemonade stand.
So my question was if we let's say wanted to build in some ambiguity towards our pricing into the model
would be a good strategy for doing that.
I mean in the sense of price testing right like we don't remember we are charging for today like $3
or something like really nice eliminated the limited garnishes or whatever.
What would happen if we charged $5.
And what would happen if we charged too because we don't actually know what's the optimum price and
we know that the demand is elastic for the Econ. nerds out there that just means that as the price goes
up demand goes down price goes down demand goes up.
But we don't know how elastic it is.
So do you have any good ideas for how we could run with that.
Yeah one idea is if you have a guess as to what the last 50 of the pricing is you could create a elasticity
table.
We're on one side you have the price of the lemonade on the other side could be the metric that we were
using for demand so it could be the start percentage or it could be the purchase percentage rate for
given the same amount of traffic maybe at a higher price you're going to assume a lower start percentage
and maybe a lower percentage of people that actually will buy.
So if you have that schedule what you can do is then every time you put in a new price that's from that
table you look up the percentage and you look up the purchase percentage automatically from that table
and you can pretty much pass across various combinations of prices.
Okay yeah that would make sense because then if you get a table you could do a lot of miniature gases
so that you know if you change your price you wouldn't have to revamp the whole model exactly.
Yeah.
I mean one other thing Tony I was thinking of and in my case study that I did with my old startup we
covered just the Excel concept called Pivot Tables.
I am obsessed with Pivot Tables total like nerd out on these things but what you can do is you can set
up all of your assumptions in one sheet.
Right.
So you put like your price and you put a percentage of how many people stop by based on how many people
walk by.
And then this is doesn't really necessarily fix the problem of price testing but it allows you to change
it very quickly.
So you could do is just literally that one sheet change those numbers as you go.
Right so you could get $3 one day you could go back and for the next day maybe $294.
So you literally just change three to four and it changes all the way throughout your sheet.
We cover that a little bit and the scholar paroquet studies so check that out.
If you want to add a little bit a better idea of what I'm talking about.
All right time you got a question yeah another question that I think some of the students might be asking
especially early on looking at the lemonade example was hey you know I'm actually really interested
in doing more of a tech related startup so you know there really is Lemonade work.
And the answer is yeah we really think you should because if you don't have a lot of background and
financial modeling the lemonade stand example isn't to teach you about Lemonheads or the lemonade business
itself.
You don't really know too much about that but it's to show you the process of modeling and creating
the models progressively.
So you get a feel for you know what that process is like.
The thinking process that structure thinking and whatever model you're going to be building for your
start of that process is going to be very helpful for you as you go through it.
Yeah.
And another concept I kind of tried to touch on was that all models and this is the way that we kind
of designed a curriculum that all models start off from looking the exact same right.
It's kind of like babies like we all kind of look like baby shrimp at the very beginning and then we
start changing as we get more and more complex terrible analogy I'm sorry.
So it's kind of similar to that.
Right.
Like if you wanted to do the most ridiculous pay what you want.
Business Model start up for God only knows like some new solar panel that you know you finance and you
have to raise money to pay for it.
You always start off at the very beginning like you're always going to start off with the most basic
stuff like What are your startup expenses.
What are your ongoing expenses as you operate and how roughly do you see revenue.
Right.
And then then you'll get into more specific stuff so you have to have a solid foundation raise.
You're going to have to do that stuff regardless so you might as well make sure that you have that 100
percent like under wraps What if I don't know the foot traffic yet.
What if I don't know what kind of price and what price I want to charge yet.
Right.
You can still build the motto because the mechanisms of how it works doesn't have to change.
It's more of you're building it so that it can account for those assumptions.
And so that when you do find out it's you just plug it in rather than you know you kind of not doing
anything and then you still have to build it later.
Yeah yeah.
Yeah.
And I think it's kind of like I think of it kind of like a three point process by which you can kind
of solve this.
I don't know any information about how many people walk by.
Right.
Like I think one if you Google and look for someone else's template that might be somewhat related you
can find that they might have some kind of number that you can you can take and then to oftentimes you
can find industry benchmarks.
Right.
So there are a lot of companies that just publish marketing information and they'll publish like here
are the statistics of how many people walk into a retail shop at this given location based on the category.
I know it's a lot of work but you can kind a Masters together to get at least a somewhat sane idea.
Right.
And then when you actually get out there immediately adjust it we're just trying to make sure you don't
blow up the model at the very beginning and then a third thing is if you can't do either one of those
really just comes down to guessing.
I mean I feel like you just really got to sit down and actually try to think about it.
Remember you don't have to get the right answer.
You just have to get something that is not insane right.
So that's the standard just not absolutely crazy you know hey I'm nervous.
I really have no financial modeling background I have no finance background.
The stuff looks really complicated even for the lemonade example.
Do I really need to learn this.
You know I think if you're starting a business or if you're going to be making business decisions for
even a business unit just being able to connect your choices are visitants choices with the impact to
the business is going to be really helpful.
Now are you going to you know have to be able to build super complex financial models.
Probably for most of you you don't need to but being able to understand how you go from assumptions
to how it impacts your business is going to be something that will be useful for all of us.
One question I had when going through the lemonade stand was so we value our time.
Right.
So that was kind of our profit baseline.
We were saying well we only get paid $30 an hour and that's how we're going to work backwards and figure
out how much money we have to make.
Therefore how much we have to charge.
So my question was clearly there's two phases of this right.
They're running the business and then there's the starting up of the business.
Right.
So how do we value our time during the startup phase and not the ongoing phase.
And should we actually do that.
Because presumably if it takes you six days of work to set up the lemonade stand.
Well I mean that's a pretty big sunk cost.
So you should probably think I actually probably bake that $30 into that too as well.
Jimmy thoughts on that.
Yeah I think I think so.
Surely if you're just going to be doing like a test initially to see if you really want to stick with
it you may be able to find out how many days you need to test it out in order for you to make that early
sunk cost time worthwhile.
Yeah I mean I don't I don't think it's I think we didn't get to it just because a lemonade stand it
was like we just want to get the basics down.
But I would probably yeah I'd suggest that you have some type of a corporation into that.
You know one thing you have to understand is that when you're starting a business specifically there's
kind of this feeling that oh if you're factoring in your salary into it then you're not really an entrepreneur
kind of thing like entrepreneurs.
They work for free and they just kind of make everything work eventually by they own like sweat of their
brow and that's only really partially true.
I mean one thing you have to understand is that if you don't bake in your time into your models early
on.
Well that's great.
I mean you might might end up happening is you might end up making a business that makes sense financially
but it's only making sense because you have this goes to labor right you have this person it's you who's
doing everything for free and that's not scalable.
I have seen that happen a lot where people are like oh man my margins are 20 percent.
This is fantastic time to scale.
And then they hire someone and they find out their gross margins are now negative.
Right.
Because they just never thought Oh right I've been doing everything.
So in general I think it's something you should try doing earlier on don't really worry about that stuff
when you get to fund raising.
And I know give you a tip when you go to a venture capitalist or a savvy angel right after to qualify
that they will look for this stuff right.
They want to make sure that you are valuing your time.
I've never met a venture capitalist I have met an angel investor but I never get venture capitalists
who is who thinks it's completely normal to go raise two years of funds and have no incorporation of
your salary into it.
Right.
So they would think that's ridiculous.
Like oh you're just going to burn out.
But they're also you just assume that you're an amateur like they'll just assume you've never done this
before and this is unrealistic.
Make sure you have enthusiasm but if you're not thinking about burnout and the fact that you have to
pay bills at the end of the day.
Well you know I mean that's often a it's all like a soft red flag.
You have you don't have money to pay your rent or to get food they're going to be worried about their
investment in the business.
Yeah.
Yeah exactly.
And it makes sense you know.
I mean that's and is totally off topic but a lot of times you see companies raise tons of money like
the raised $100 billion.
Right.
Let's say Groupon for instance Groupon you know a company that was like daily deals and they grew rapidly.
They had a billion dollars in 18 months.
Well they raised a billion dollars at one point and people were like wow it's Groupon going to do with
the billion dollars.
Well Google didn't get a billion dollars.
About 600 million of that went to the board and the founder and people think that's weird but it's actually
pretty normal.
People when you raise later on people want to make sure that you get rid of the what they call the money
question.
So they want to make sure like hey that's great that you're raising $50 dollars but if you're not taking
care of yourself how can I possibly expect you to be pulling 60 hours a week 80 hours a week running
this company.
Right.
You have to get a part time job at Chipotle.
Just to pay your bills and then I have a part time CEO.
So this is actually something you'll see through out the business and the startup life cycle back to
the lemonade stand.
And if we decided to take our limited drink memory like we had premium and we had regular How would
we reflect this if from the get go.
We wanted to work with like five or six different types of lemonade.
Right.
I would imagine you get very messy.
But what's the best way of doing that right.
Because we're guessing on all of these things so what if we day one we're like we're going to peach
strawberry Lemon called pure sugar and like two other ones.
How exactly would we do that.
Do you know of any easy ways to do it.
Yeah.
Well I mean I'm just thinking strictly in terms of the lemonade stand business then but I think there's
a lesson to be drawn from that.
And you're thinking about multiple different lemonade options and maybe there's like a very a Kiwi or
a mango or whatever the different options to start off with.
You may want to try to get some data point like simple data points right.
You may just have the names of those things and the prices and just do a simple survey to get an idea
of what the interest distribution might be.
And so then in your model if you have the traffic you can then at least have a starting point for how
that traffic might be distributed in terms of interest for what's available at your table.
Yeah I don't I don't know if any of your students are in my MVP course we go over like hundreds of ways
not hundreds obviously but tons and tons of ways that you can get that really quick customer feedback.
You know I mean in the case of a lemonade stand you might be going to the locations and just with a
flyer and just talking to people.
But there's one hundred and 101 other ways to get very quickly be like oh no one's interested in my
beer or sugar lemonade idea.
Maybe I should scrap that.
But then also looking at the yeah again the proportion right because it's not like you have six Skewes
S-K use meaning like six different items that you sell that that's going to increase the number of people
that are walking by the area to begin with.
Right.
Really you're just dividing that same amount of people down across the six new different types.
So it doesn't change the top line revenue potential or customer potential It just changes the way that
you divide it up.
Yeah I think more.
More so dividing it up.
Yeah I mean there could be a possibility where somebody seeing more options maybe there's some people
that are willing to stop by the table whereas if you only have one option they don't stop by the table
but it's probably not going to be a big percentage of the flip side where these studies are people have
to make choices they end up buying less.
Yes.
Oh boy.
Yeah the restaurant that has like 400 things on its menu versus the one that's five what is I'm curious
I mean what is the most complicated or elaborate thing you've ever had to model out.
Ooh.
OK.
When I was doing some underwriting for the pain or restaurant for the group that all the pancakes for
Express stores throughout America are one of the things I had to do was do a projection of the purse
or financial projections.
But basically I had to do a goal seek for all the all of the store based on I think like 100 and different
factors for each of them.
So they all had their own set of assumptions for the stores because a lot of them had prior history
and then I had to do that in a way that was bought that where I wouldn't go insane doing every single
thing.
So it was it was kind of a little bit tougher at the time because I wasn't super experienced with VBA
scripting.
So once you kind of learn to do that it becomes a little bit easier to do some like automated stuff
and do it at a larger scale.
I think that's probably one of the harder things where you have some complexity at an individual kind
of a unit or store level already.
And then you also have some layer of additional complexity.
We're combining hundreds or thousands of them together.
Yeah.
So it's like depth versus kind of breath.
Also one thing anyone was worth pointing out is that when you model there is infinite complexity you
can add right like we could take that lemonade stand and go to town with it like we could talk about
we could have modeled out the temperature on a day to day basis.
And building in a correlation to our sales based on that.
Right like we could have built in a training module we could have built and taxation and labor.
You couldn't make these things infinitely complex.
But the question is how far do you have to go to answer those questions that are are most important
to what you're trying to figure out.
And that's obviously we cover in the next section.
So you just understand that like you can model all day long.
I remember seeing a model for a startup that is in an incubator they're making like they're doing like
financing plans for photovoltaic like solar panels and opening up their model and just it just was so
overwhelmed I really like 40 tabs at one point time.
They're modeling our climate change.
And like you know it's like universal predictions that climate scientists make that like in five years
will be negative six Celsius from our baseline and they were like charting that out and the likelihood
of hitting that.
And if it's worse than what was going to happen then this would affect their demand in effect.
They're saying holes and they're even like doing all this crazy stuff.
But like our main markets in California and California is not near the Arctic shelf so they're due to
be less affected.
But if we still like Massachusetts it's it's not like it was not necessary right at that point you're
probably wasting time unless you have a hundred person company and you literally have an intern that
you love torturing and then it's not a waste of time but otherwise man I don't know.
You just have to solve is it absolutely necessary.
Yeah.
I think like a good question asked is it really going to factor into your decision making right now
or your upcoming decisions.
Ok cool.
So that's all my questions for Section 2.
Guys if you have any questions just actually put them in the Q&A or preferably the slack chat please.
We get to those a lot faster than the Q&A Q&A.
Man I just I don't know about you but like I lose those answers all the time.
I see this question of like I'm going to answer this and then I go back and you know my system is like
somehow hidden it or deleted it.
It's really hard to use.
So if he in a slack.
Ideally any questions you have we can definitely come back and address these if we think it's something
that people you know have questions about often enough but otherwise let us know your thoughts and we'll
see you in the next section.